# Text To Speech

Text to speech is the generation of speech synthesized from the text. The technology is used to communicate with users when reading a screen is not possible or impractical. This not only opens up apps and information to use in new ways but can also make the world more accessible to people who cannot read text on a screen.

-----

## Installation

```
pip install gTTS article nltk
```
Firstly import the `gTTS article nltk` libraries through the terminal that will help in the program.

-----

## Code Break:

```python
from newspaper import Article
import nltk
from gtts import gTTS
import os
```
This part of the code imports necessary modules: `Article` from `newspaper` for extracting and parsing articles from URLs, `nltk` for natural language processing tasks, `gTTS` for converting text to speech, and `os` for interacting with the operating system.

```python
article = Article(
    "https://hackernoon.com/future-of-python-language-bright-or-dull-uv41u3xwx"
)

article.download()
article.parse()
```
An `Article` object is created with the URL of the article to be processed. The `download()` method fetches the article content from the web, and `parse()` method extracts relevant information like text and metadata.

```python
nltk.download("punkt")
article.nlp()
```
The `nltk.download("punkt")` line downloads the Punkt tokenizer models required for tokenizing text into sentences. The `nlp()` method performs natural language processing tasks on the article, such as keyword extraction.

```python
mytext = article.text

language = "en"
myobj = gTTS(text=mytext, lang=language, slow=False)
```
The `text` attribute of the article contains the extracted text. This text is assigned to the variable `mytext`. The language for the text-to-speech conversion is set to English (`"en"`), and a `gTTS` object is created with the text, language, and speed parameters.

```python
myobj.save("read_article.mp3")
```
The synthesized speech generated by the `gTTS` object is saved as an MP3 file named `"read_article.mp3"`.

```python
os.system("start read_article.mp3")
```
The `os.system()` function is used to execute a system command. In this case, it launches the default media player to play the generated MP3 file `"read_article.mp3"`. On Windows systems, `"start"` is used to open the file using the default application associated with MP3 files.

-----