# OTP Verification

OTP Verification is the process of verifying a user by sending a unique password so that the user can be verified before completing a registration or payment process. Most of the time, we get an OTP when we make an online payment, or when we forget our password, or when creating an account on any online platform. Thus, the sole purpose of an OTP is to verify the identity of a user by sending a unique password.

-----

## Installation

```
pip install secure-smtplib
```
Firstly import the `secure-smtplib` library through the terminal that will help in the program.

-----

## Code Break:

```python
import math
import random
import smtplib
```

These lines import the necessary libraries and modules. `math` is used for mathematical functions, `random` for generating random numbers, and `smtplib` for sending emails.

```python
digits = "0123456789"
OTP = ""
for i in range(6):
    OTP += digits[math.floor(random.random() * 10)]
```

A 6-digit OTP is generated by randomly selecting digits from the string "0123456789".

```python
otp = OTP + " is your OTP"
msg = otp
```

The OTP is combined with a message to form the email content.

```python
s = smtplib.SMTP("smtp.gmail.com", 587)
s.starttls()
s.login("Your Gmail Account", "Your app password")
```

A connection is established with the Gmail SMTP server, and a secure TLS connection is initiated. The script logs in to the Gmail account using the provided credentials.

```python
emailid = input("Enter your email: ")
s.sendmail("<your phone number>", emailid, msg)
```

The user is prompted to enter their email address, and the OTP message is sent to that email address using the `sendmail` method.

```python
a = input("Enter Your OTP >>: ")

if a == OTP:
    print("Verified")
else:
    print("Please Check your OTP again")
```

The user is prompted to enter the OTP received via email. The script checks whether the entered OTP matches the generated OTP and prints "Verified" if they match; otherwise, it prints "Please Check your OTP again."

In summary, the script generates a random OTP, sends it to a user's email address using Gmail's SMTP server, and verifies the entered OTP against the generated one.

-----